# Contributing to ski-interpreter

## Contribution workflow

If you spot a bug, a missing feature, or merely an inconsistency, feel free to open an issue. 
Ideally, some of the following should be in the description:

* steps to reproduce;
* a minimal example or test case;
* expected/desired behavior;
* actual behavior.

If you want to make a change instead, make a fork and submit a PR. 
Describe your changes briefly in the PR description.

Please make sure that `npm run build` runs without errors
on your branch before submitting a PR.
Consider setting up the git hooks (see below) to ensure that.

The history will be merged in its entirety by the maintainer,
but you may ask for a squash merge if you feel that is appropriate.

## Installation

After you clone the repo, do this to ensure you have the complete package:

    npm ci
    npm run build

The latter will run `npx eslint` 
(without `--fix` - that has to be done manually),
`npx tsc`, and the test suite,
and then build the artifacts for the site and the package distribution.

If you're on Linux, it might make sense to install the commit hooks:

    ./aux/githooks/setup.sh

They will put `npm run build` into the `pre-commit` hook, 
and add a `commit-msg` hook to enforce commit message style (see below).

The following command runs tests (without building the whole thing):

    npm run test

You can run a specific test file with

    npx tsc && npx mocha test/your-test-file.js

If the build fails due to the linter, consider running

    npx eslint --fix

## Project structure

* `src/` - the core of the interpreter written in TS.
* `site-src/` - ad-hoc HTML tooling only relevant for GitHub pages.
Will be built into `docs/build/js/*`
* `lib/` - autogenerated, only used for distribution.
* `docs/build` - autogenerated, only used for the site.
* `test` - test files, written in JS 
* and roughly split into categories.
* `test/ts` - typescript-native tests which are run via `ts-node` and `mocha`.
Both locations are included in `npm run test`.
Consider adding new tests in TS, if possible.
* `docs/*.html` - the site.
* `docs/quest-data` - the quests.

## Coding style

* Stay clear, expressive, and concise (in that order).
* Try to keep things immutable, aside from caching.
The mutability:bugs correlation has been close to 1 so far.
* When choosing between speed and inspectability, always go for the latter.
We already have an optimized SKI interpreter, it's called Haskell.

Commands such as `npm run build` and `npx eslint` will help with the gory details. 

## Quest authoring

If you are adding new quests,
don't fill in quest `id` and `created_at` by hand.
Instead, add `"id":"",` on a separate line and then run

    ./aux/fill-empty-ids

If you know of a better way to automate quest authoring and
ensuring unique ids, please write me.

Consider using `./bin/ski.js quest-lint` for added/modified quests,
although it is baked into `npm run test` as well.

## Commits

Please prepend commit messages with one or more tags in brackets:

    [repo] Updated dependencies
    [core][bug] fixed method foo in Expr

Typical tags (the list isn't enforced whatsoever,
feel free to come up with your own):

* `[ai]` - fully AI-generated commit;
* `[api]` - API changes;
* `[bench]` - benchmarks;
* `[bin]` - CLI changes;
* `[break]` - a breaking change;
* `[bug]` - a bug fix;
* `[core]` - core interpreter changes;
* `[doc]` - ONLY documentation and/or code comments were changed;
* `[example]` - only example code was changed;
* `[html]` - HTML, CSS, or site-only JS changes;
* `[quest]` - relates to quests. can be used with [core] or [html] when appropriate.
* `[ref]` - refactoring or style changes, no behavior changes;
* `[repo]` - repository maintenance, e.g. dependencies, build scripts, etc.
* `[test]` - test-only changes;
* `[tiny]` - less than three lines, and no behavior changes involved.
* `[types]` - sophisticated type definition changes
* `[wip]` - work in progress. Goes well with `git commit --no-verify`. 

When touching multiple subsystems, try to split the change into smaller incremental commits, e.g.
`test`, then `src`, then `site-src`, then `docs/*.html`, then `docs/quest-data`.

## Releasing a new version

If you are a maintainer/uploader and are
releasing a new version,
the commit should include ONLY package.json and CHANGELOG.md,
and the message should be instead

    ^_^ Version x.y.z released
